Update origin trial status for Soft Navigations (#6745)
GoogleChrome/developer.chrome.com: site/en/blog/soft-navigations-experiment/index.md

layout: 'layouts/blog-post.njk'
title: Experimenting with measuring soft navigations
description: |

>  The Chrome team is working on better measuring so-called soft navigations used by Single Page Applications and a new API is now available to allow sites to experiment with this too.

Reviewer: "available" may confuse folks to think it shipped?

Author: WDYT about this then:

```suggestion
 The Chrome team is working on better measuring so-called soft navigations used by Single Page Applications and a new API is now available behind a flag to allow sites to experiment with this too.
```

Reviewer: yes!

For a website that wishes to enable this for all their visitors to see the impact, there is an origin trial running from Chrome 110 to Chrome 114 which can be enabled by signing up for the trial and including a meta element with the origin trial token in the HTML or HTTP header. See the [Get started with origin trials](/docs/web-platform/origin-trials/) post for more information.

Site owners can choose to include the origin trial on their pages for all, or for just a subset of users. Be aware of the [implications section](#what-are-the-implications-of-enabling-soft-navigations-in-chrome) above as to how this changes how your metrics may be reported, especially if enabling this origin trial for a large proportion of your users. Note that CrUX will continue to report the metrics in the existing manner regardless of this soft navigation setting so is not impacted by those implications. It should also be noted that origin trials are also limited to enabling experimental features on a maximum of 0.5% of all Chrome page loads as a median over 14 days, but this should only be an issue for very large sites.

{% Aside 'important' %}

> The Soft Navigations origin trial has now ended. The Chrome team are taking onboard the feedback received and will be making some adjustments and are aiming to relaunch a second origin trial in Q3 2023 for further feedback.

Reviewer: end of Q3?

Author: Will I just say Q4? Or "later in the year"?

Author: ```suggestion
The Soft Navigations origin trial has now ended. The Chrome team are taking onboard the feedback received and will be making some adjustments and are aiming to relaunch a second origin trial from Chrome 117 (due for release in September 2023) for further feedback.
```
